METASSEMBLER:
-------------

Typically de novo genome sequencing projects generate multiple assemblies of the same sample using 
different software and/or different parameters of the same software. Instead of discarding the 
extra assemblies, Metassembler merges them to the top assembly using mate-pair information and 
whole-genome alignments, in order to generate a single superior assembly. The final assembly will 
combine the best locally superior assemblies throughout the genome.

INSTALLATION:
-------------

Metassembler requires the following external programs to be installed:
1) MUMmer whole genome alignment package
2) bowtie2
3) samtools
4) python
5) perl

The 'argparse' python module must also be installed: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/argparse
For general instructions on installing python packages in standard and non-standard locations
please refer to: http://docs.python.org/2/install/

The 'Statistics::Descriptive' perl module must also be installed: 
http://search.cpan.org/~shlomif/Statistics-Descriptive-3.0608/lib/Statistics/Descriptive.pm

If these requirements are met then, under unix like systems, type 'make install' within the Metassembler 
root directory. Finally, make the binary files visible to your PATH environmental variable.

Paths to the binaries present at the moment of installation will be used by default. If paths cannot
be found at the moment of installation then they must be present in the PATH environmental variable
at the moment of metassemble execution or must be provided through the input configuration file (see
MANUAL).

SAMPLE DATA:
------------

A sample data is provided for testing the installation and for familiarizing with Metassembler. It 
consists of two alternate assemblies A.fa and B.fa generated from the first ~250kb Staphylococcus 
Aureus genome with some differences.

There are two ways in which you can run the Metassembler, the easiest way is using the wrapper 
'metassemble' which takes as input a configuration file.
In Sample/meta1 run:
     ./Metassemble_script.sh
This will create a configuration file (B.A.metassemble.config) and run metassemble to merge A.fa 
and B.fa into a single assembly. A directory MergeMetassemble/ will be created. This directory will 
contain all the information used in the metassembly process as well ass the final results. The general 
layout of the output directory and the description of the important files contained in it can be 
found in the MANUAL. In particular, you will find a description of the *.metassem file which contains 
instructions on how to construct the final metassembly sequence by concatenating sequences in the two 
input assemblies.. In this sample data we expect that the metassembly sequence is composed of the 
assembly A sequence intercalated with assembly B insertions. 


The other way to perform the Metassembly is running all the processes step by step. 
In Sample/meta1 run:
     ./Step_by_Step_script.sh
This will run each of processes in turn, including the computation of the CE-statistic for the 
starting assemblies and the whole genome alignment using the nucmer program from the MUMmer package.

The resulting metassembly should be a single contig with deletions present in assembly A corrected using 
sequence from assembly B.

Details on how to use the wrapper metassemble are given in MANUAL

